SNI: clients MUST while servers MAY (#178)
thomas-fossati/draft-tls13-iot: draft-ietf-uta-tls13-iot-profile.md

# Server Name Indication {#sni}

This specification mandates the implementation of the Server Name Indication

> (SNI) extension for IoT devices acting as clients.

Author: We should probably say that this requirement is intended to support edge-to-cloud use cases.

However, if a client is only deployed within a constrained network and therefore only talks to constrained servers, the MUST seems unwarranted.

Author: addressed in 2a1c23c3c32374f7662d8ab09902fc4e8318e65a

Reviewer: Figuring out how to turn off SNI is often obscure or hard in some libraries.  In a multi-vendor IoT deployment, some devices might have no idea if they are talking to another device, or to a cloud service.  So, just leave SNI on.

Author: 👍 addressed in [4aa6c7f](https://github.com/thomas-fossati/draft-tls13-iot/pull/178/commits/4aa6c7fdcdab6707c558354c16970d43f22938d4)

This supports edge-to-cloud communication and can be turned off for
constrained-to-constrained communication.

Where privacy requirements necessitate it, the ECH (Encrypted Client Hello)
extension {{?RFC9849}} prevents an on-path attacker from determining the domain
name the client is trying to connect to.  Since the ECH extension requires the
use of Hybrid Public Key Encryption (HPKE) {{?RFC9180}}, and additional
protocols require further protocol exchanges and cryptographic operations,
there is a certain overhead associated with this privacy feature.  Note that in
industrial IoT deployments, the use of ECH may be disabled because network
administrators routinely inspect the SNI to detect malicious behavior.
Furthermore, to avoid leaking DNS lookups to network inspection altogether,
additional protocols are needed, including DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) {{?RFC8484}},
DNS-over-TLS (DoT) {{?RFC7858}}, and DNS-over-QUIC (DoQ) {{?RFC9250}}.

Where IoT devices are accepting (D)TLS connections (i.e., they are acting as a
server), it is unlikely that there will be a useful name placed into the SNI by
the connecting client.  Since an IoT server cannot rely on a client to

> provide a correct SNI, it MAY ignore it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the connecting client.  Since an IoT server cannot rely on a client to
provide a correct SNI, IoT devices in a responding (server) mode SHOULD ignore SNI.
```

# Server Name Indication {#sni}

To support edge-to-cloud communication, this specification mandates the
implementation of the Server Name Indication (SNI) extension for IoT devices
acting as clients.
This functionality is not strictly required for constrained-to-constrained

> communication and can be disabled in such cases.

Author: ```suggestion
communication and could be disabled in such cases.
```
